# User Input for Data Filters Tab 🧠

<br/>

#### **NOTE:** Press `Apply data filters` button to apply filters

<br/>
<br/>

### Using `Apply data filters` button
- The filters will only be applied to the tracking data once this button is pressed.
- If the button has not been pressed then the data presented in the tables and plots is that from the tracking data the user read in with the `upload data` button.
- Users should move the sliders to the required values and then press the button to execute the filtering step. All of the plots and tables will update automatically. 

<br/> 

### Changing `Speed Filter (m/s)` slider
- This will filter all speed values in the data set that are greater than the value that you select on the slider. E.g. if it is set to 30m/s all speeds greater than this will be removed.
- If you have followed our guide then the speeds are the point to point speeds, i.e. the straight line distances between subsequent locations divided by the time between locations.  
- The range of this slider is updated to the bounds of the data the user reads in.

<br/>
 
### Changing `Net squared displacement filter (km)` slider
- This will remove all the net squared displacement values in the data set that are greater than the value that you select on the slider
- Net squared displacement is the straight line distance between the first fix recorded for an individual and all subsequent fixes.
- The range of this slider is updated to the bounds of the data the user reads in.

<br/>

### Changing `Post deployment filter (hours)` silder
- This will remove all locations that are within the post deployment filter value.
- Post deployment time is the time between any given location and the first location for that same individual

<br/>
 
### Changing `Select Date Range` Input
- This will retain all data collected on days that are within the date range that the user selects
- The date range displayed is the full date range of the data the user reads in.

<br/>

### Changing map with `Select plot options`
- The drop down menu and buttons within this box allow you to alter the map immediately to the left. 
- The user can toggle between viewing all individual in the data set (population selected) and a single individual (individual selected).
- If individual is selected the user can change which individual is shown using the drop down menu. By default the firs individual alphabetically is chose. 