## User Input for Foraging Trip Tab 🧠

<br/>

**NOTE** foraging trips will only be calculated after the `Calculate Trip Statistics` is pressed. They are not calculated initially when the app is launched. 

<br/>
<br/>

### Apply `Calculate Trip Statistics` button
- Foraging trips will only be calculated using the input values selected once this button is pressed. 
- If the user wants to re-calculate foraging trips then the button needs to be pressed again
- All of the plots and tables will update with the current foraging trips once the button is pressed. 


### Changing `Trip Start Distance (km)`slider
- This is the minimum distance between the central place and a location for that location to be classed as a part of a foraging trip
- Locations closer to the central place than the value selected on this slider will be considered as times when the individual was at the colony and not part of a foraging trip


### Changing `Minimum Trip Duration (mins)` slider
- This is the minimum duration that a candidate foraging trip has to be for it to be classified as a true foraging trip. 
- Candidate foraging trips are continuous periods when the the individual was further from the central place than the distance selected on the `Minimum Trip Duration (mins)` slider


### `Foraging Trip Summary` tables
- There is a tab for the current and previously calculated foraging trips, Which are calculated each time the `Calculate Trip Statistics` button is pressed.
- Therefore to compare two different sets of input values simply set the sliders to the first set of choices and press the button and then change the sliders to the second set of choices and press the button. You will then be able to compare how this effects the number, duration and length of foraging trips. 
