# User Input for Segmenting Tab 🧠

<br/>

#### **NOTE** Press the `Calculate Segments` button to segement the data. Segmenting is often carried out before applying using hidden markov models to animal movement tracks

<br/>
<br/>

### Apply `Calculate Segments` button
- The data will only be segmented once this button is pressed. 
- Move the sliders to the required values and then press this button and all of the plots and tables will update with the segmented data 

<br/>

### Changing `Threshold Interval to Segment Track (mins)` slider
- This is the maximum gap between successive locations. If the interval between locations is larger than this threshold then the track is broken up into two different segments at this point. 
- E.g. if locations are collected at 15 min intervals but there are gaps in the data then the user may decide to segment a movement track if there is a gap greater then 60 mins. 

<br/>

### Changing `Minimum Length of Segment (No. Locations)` slider
- Once a track has been broken up into segments that do not exceed the maximum threshold interval (see above) then this filter is used to discard short segments
- Segments made up of fewer locations than the value of this slider will be discarded

<br/>

### `Segment Length Histogram` plot
- This depicts the length (number of locations) of each segment prior to short segment being removed
- Therefore the different shades of grey depict the difference between segments that are removed and retained due to the `Minimum Length of Segment (No. Locations)` slider

<br/>

### `Sampling Interval Histogram` plot
- This histogram depicts the duration between consecutive locations
- Therefore the different shades of grey depict whether the duration between consecutive locations exceeds the value chosen on the `Minimum Length of Segment (No. Locations)` slider